INSTALL.md, before:

How to build
============

Bear should be quite portable on UNIX operating systems. It has been
tested on FreeBSD, GNU/Linux and OS X.

## Build dependencies

1. **C++ compiler**, to compile the sources. (Shall support
   [C++17 dialect](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/compiler_support#cpp17).)
2. **CMake**, to configure the build. (Minimum version is 3.12) And a
   build tool [supported](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.5/manual/cmake-generators.7.html)
   by CMake.
3. **pkg-config** to look up for dependencies' compiler flags. 
4. **protoc** and **grpc_cpp_plugin** commands. (See gRPC dependencies.)

## Dependencies

The dependencies can come from OS packages or the build will fetch the sources
and build locally.

- [gRPC](https://github.com/grpc/grpc) >= 1.26
- [fmt](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt) >= 6.2
- [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog) >= 1.5
- [json](https://github.com/nlohmann/json) >= 3.7

Developer dependencies:

- [python](https://www.python.org/) >= 3.5
- [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest) >= 1.10
- [lit](https://pypi.org/project/lit/0.7.1/) >= 0.7

Install dependencies from packages on Fedora 32

    dnf install python cmake pkg-config
    dnf install json-devel spdlog-devel fmt-devel grpc-devel grpc-plugins
    dnf install gtest-devel gmock-devel # optional for running the tests
    
Install dependencies from packages on Arch

    pacman -S python cmake pkg-config
    pacman -S grpc spdlog fmt nlohmann-json
    pacman -S gtest gmock # optional for running the tests

Install dependencies from packages on Ubuntu 20.04

    apt-get install python cmake pkg-config
    apt-get install libfmt-dev libspdlog-dev nlohmann-json3-dev
    apt-get install libgrpc++-dev protobuf-compiler-grpc libssl-dev

Install dependencies from packages from Brew

    brew install fmt spdlog nlohmann-json grpc pkg-config

Install dependencies from packages on Alpine edge

    apk add git cmake pkgconf make g++
    apk add protobuf-dev grpc-dev fmt-dev spdlog-dev nlohmann-json c-ares-dev

## Build commands

Ideally, you should build Bear in a separate build directory.

    cmake -DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=OFF -DENABLE_FUNC_TESTS=OFF $BEAR_SOURCE_DIR
    make all
    make install

You can configure the build process with passing arguments to cmake.

To run test during the build process, you will need to install the
test frameworks and re-configure the build. For unit testing Bear
uses googletest, which will be built from source if you not install
it before.

    # install `lit` the functional test framework into a python virtualenv
    mkvirtualenv bear
    pip install lit
    # it's important to re-run the configure step again
    cmake $BEAR_SOURCE_DIR
    cmake --build $build_dir --parallel 4

Commit message:

Add note about OpenSSL and LLVM Clang. (#332)
* Add note about OpenSSL, and LLVMClang.

INSTALL.md, after:

How to build
============

Bear should be quite portable on UNIX operating systems. It has been
tested on FreeBSD, GNU/Linux and OS X.

## Build dependencies

1. **C++ compiler**, to compile the sources. (Shall support
   [C++17 dialect](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/compiler_support#cpp17).)
2. **CMake**, to configure the build. (Minimum version is 3.12) And a
   build tool [supported](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.5/manual/cmake-generators.7.html)
   by CMake.
3. **pkg-config** to look up for dependencies' compiler flags. 
4. **protoc** and **grpc_cpp_plugin** commands. (See gRPC dependencies.)

## Dependencies

The dependencies can come from OS packages or the build will fetch the sources
and build locally.

- [gRPC](https://github.com/grpc/grpc) >= 1.26
- [fmt](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt) >= 6.2
- [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog) >= 1.5
- [json](https://github.com/nlohmann/json) >= 3.7

Developer dependencies:

- [python](https://www.python.org/) >= 3.5
- [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest) >= 1.10
- [lit](https://pypi.org/project/lit/0.7.1/) >= 0.7

Install dependencies from packages on Fedora 32

    dnf install python cmake pkg-config
    dnf install json-devel spdlog-devel fmt-devel grpc-devel grpc-plugins
    dnf install gtest-devel gmock-devel # optional for running the tests
    
Install dependencies from packages on Arch

    pacman -S python cmake pkg-config
    pacman -S grpc spdlog fmt nlohmann-json
    pacman -S gtest gmock # optional for running the tests

Install dependencies from packages on Ubuntu 20.04

    apt-get install python cmake pkg-config
    apt-get install libfmt-dev libspdlog-dev nlohmann-json3-dev
    apt-get install libgrpc++-dev protobuf-compiler-grpc libssl-dev

Install dependencies from packages from Brew

    brew install fmt spdlog nlohmann-json grpc pkg-config

Install dependencies from packages on Alpine edge

    apk add git cmake pkgconf make g++
    apk add protobuf-dev grpc-dev fmt-dev spdlog-dev nlohmann-json c-ares-dev

## Platform: macOS

Xcode < 11 or macOS < 10.15 users should get [LLVM Clang](https://releases.llvm.org) binaries and headers. Make
sure that `clang++ -v` returns correct `InstalledDir`. This is because `std::filesystem` is not available
on Clang supplied with Xcode < 11, and `std::filesystem::path` is not available in system C++ dylib for
macOS < 10.15.

If OpenSSL is installed via Brew, and it's keg-only, run the following for pkg-config
to find it as grpc's dependency:
    
    export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$(brew --prefix)/opt/openssl@1.1/lib/pkgconfig

## Build commands

Ideally, you should build Bear in a separate build directory.

    cmake -DENABLE_UNIT_TESTS=OFF -DENABLE_FUNC_TESTS=OFF $BEAR_SOURCE_DIR
    make all
    make install

You can configure the build process with passing arguments to cmake.

To run test during the build process, you will need to install the
test frameworks and re-configure the build. For unit testing Bear
uses googletest, which will be built from source if you not install
it before.

    # install `lit` the functional test framework into a python virtualenv
    mkvirtualenv bear
    pip install lit
    # it's important to re-run the configure step again
    cmake $BEAR_SOURCE_DIR
    cmake --build $build_dir --parallel 4
